My comments to you today are based on 2nd Peter chapter 1 verse 19.
There it states, we have the prophetic word made more sure.
Yes, we are fortified by the prophetic word.
Actually, there is no one on earth today that is not affected by prophecy,
even if he is not aware of it.
What is a prophecy?
The Hebrew term for prophecy is not limited to predicting or foretelling something in the future.
It also includes divine commands or inspired instruction.
The Samaritan woman at the well recognized Jesus as a prophet because he revealed not future things,
but things about her past that he could not have known except by divine power.
The source of all true prophecy is Jehovah God.
At 2nd Peter chapter 1 verse 21, it is said of prophecy that men spoke from God as they were moved by Holy Spirit.
In addition to transmitting prophecy by Holy Spirit, Jehovah occasionally communicated such messages by means of angels.
One outstanding prophet was Daniel.
In about 536 before our common era, Daniel recorded a vision involving world powers having interaction with God's servants.
Turned with me to Daniel chapter 8 verses 21 and 22.
Daniel's vision was of animals representing governments.
Note this remarkable prophecy at Daniel chapter 8 verses 21 and 22.
The hairy male goat stands for the king of Greece, and the great horn that was between its eyes stands for the first king.
As for the horn that was broken, so that force stood up instead of it, there are four kingdoms from his nation that will stand up, but not with his power.
Interestingly, the Bible specifically named Greece, the ruler under which Greece became a world power in relation to God's people like a great horn was the Macedonian Alexander the Great.
Alexander's rulership was short-lived. He died young in the year 323 before our common era, 213 years after Daniel wrote his book.
Jehovah's angel had told Daniel that there would be four kingdoms from his nation that will stand up in place of the Greece Empire.
And chapter 11 verse 4 specifically states that the four regions would not go to his descendants.
Do the historical facts support these prophecies?
Yes, Alexander's two sons from different women, Heracles and Alexander the Fourth both were killed before they reached adulthood.
Isn't it astounding how precisely the prophecy came true that the rulership would not be passed on to Alexander's posterity?
But the prophecy also foretold that Alexander's empire would be divided up into four kingdoms.
Did that happen? Yes, one source listed 72 different military leaders under Alexander the Great, but the prophecy said only four would eventually rule in his place.
After Alexander's death there were constant fierce battles between these military leaders, but finally just four dynasties resulted, just as the Bible prophesied.
One was that of General Cassander, son of Antipater, in Macedonia and Greece.
The second was that of General LeSymechus in Asia Minor and European Thrace.
Third was the one of General Celucus, Nikitor, the Conqueror, who secured Babylon, media, Syria, Persia and the provinces eastward to the Indus River.
And finally the fourth was that of General Tholomy Sotr, son of Legus, who secured Egypt, Libya, Arabia, Palestine and Silas Syria.
These four proclaimed themselves King around 305 before our common era, 18 years after the death of Alexander.
The prophecy was so detailed, its fulfillment is fascinating proof of divine inspiration.
Does this not strengthen your faith and trust in the Bible? Here's another point. What is the first prophecy in the Bible?
The first prophecy ever was the one uttered by Jehovah at Genesis chapter 3 verse 15.
It foretold that the offspring of his figurative wife, the heavenly part of his organization, would crush Satan and his offspring, bringing liberation to mankind.
To identify this offspring, primarily Christ Jesus, Jehovah arranged for many prophecies pointing to him.
Revelation chapter 19 verse 10 says, the witness concerning Jesus is what inspires prophecy, or literally is the spirit of prophecy.
What does that mean? That all inspired Messianic messages from God proclaimed by his servants pointed to his son.
At Luke chapter 24 verse 44, Jesus himself said that all the prophecies concerning the Messiah must be fulfilled.
Let's consider some outstanding prophecies about Jesus and their fulfillment.
One was that he would be born of the tribe of Judah from the family of David, the son of Jesse.
More than 700 years before Jesus was born, Micah foretold in chapter 5 that he would be born in Bethlehem.
The prophecy speaks of Bethlehem Ephrathah.
Why is the designation Ephrathah important? Because there existed another Bethlehem in the territory of Zebulun.
It has been identified with Bidlam about seven miles or 11 kilometers west northwest of Nazareth.
Again, the prophecy was extremely specific, and amazingly I say a prophesied he would be born of a virgin.
What human would ever think of such a thing?
Daniel chapter 9 foretold that the Messiah would arrive 483 years after the command to rebuild Jerusalem.
This proved to be true in the year 29 of Archermen era, when Jesus was baptized.
Zachariah chapter 11 foretold that the Messiah would be betrayed for 30 pieces of silver.
Chapter 12 says that his body would be pierced.
It was foretold that the Messiah would die a sacrificial death for our sins and be buried in the tomb of a rich man.
Furthermore, prophecy proclaimed that he would be in the grave for parts of three days and then be resurrected.
What about the argument that Jesus deliberately arranged matters so that the events in his life would fit all these prophecies?
What do you think? Could Jesus have arranged to be born of the tribe of Judah in the town of David's birth, Bethlehem?
His mother Mary lived in Nazareth. Could he tell her while in the womb, please take me to Bethlehem because the Scripture say,
I must be born there. Obviously, the very start of his life on earth was beyond his control.
Furthermore, could Jesus have arranged for the priests to pay Judas the 30 pieces of silver to betray him?
Could he have arranged that his enemies bid in his face, that the Roman authorities sentenced him to be nailed to a stake?
Could the soldiers cast lots for his garments? Or that while piercing his sight with the spear, they not follow the custom of breaking any of his bones?
Could the prophecies just mention have been fulfilled by mere chance?
One Bible scholar likened this process to the assembling of a statue made of individual pieces of marble.
Imagine that many men who had never communicated with one another each brought a piece of marble into a room.
If those pieces fit together to form a perfect statue, you would logically conclude that there must have been someone behind the scenes who had drawn the specifications and sent an assignment to each man.
Fitting together like the pieces of the statue, every messianic prophecy would provide a vital piece of information about the Messiah.
What then would be the likelihood of all the prophecies about the Messiah being fulfilled by coincidence in one person?
In an interview, researcher Louis Lapides said,
someone did the math and figured out that the probability of just eight prophecies being fulfilled by Jesus is one chance in 100 million billion.
To arrive at the figure mentioned by this scholar by addition rather than by multiplication, you would have to write down one million and then copy that figure a billion times.
Putting those odds in perspective, the scholars stated, if you took 100 million billion silver dollars, they would cover the state of Texas in the United States to a depth of two feet or 0.6 meters.
Texas has a land area of 266,807 square miles or 690,000 square kilometers.
Imagine that huge area covered in silver dollars up to a depth of two feet.
Now, what if you put a mark on just one of those silver dollars and then had a blindfolded person wander the whole state and bend down to pick up just one coin?
What would be the chance that he choose the only coin that had been marked?
The scholar then stated that those are the same odds that anybody in history could have fulfilled just eight of the Messianic prophecies.
Yet Jesus fulfilled not just eight but many more Bible prophecies. This is overwhelming proof of divine inspiration.
Second Corinthians chapter 1 verse 20 says, no matter how many the promises of God are they have become yes by means of Jesus.
What does this mean for us? It means that Jesus was actually the promised Messiah who was sent by God.
As such, he taught the truth. If we believe him and follow him, then we too have the truth.
There's no doubt about the divine origin of Bible prophecies.
But Bible prophecies deal not only with past events, some prophecies are having remarkable fulfillment right now before our eyes.
This gives us strong assurance that the few outstanding prophecies about the end of this wicked system of things and the paradise on earth to come will also be fulfilled in the near future without any possibility of failure.
As true Christians, we are engaged in a prophetic work. This is not in the sense that we initiate new prophecies,
but in the sense that we proclaim prophecies already written down in the Bible.
At Pentecost 33 of our common era, when Holy Spirit was poured out on 120 disciples, with men and women,
Peter quoted the prophet Joel saying, in the last days, God says,
I will pour out some of my spirit on every sort of flesh and your sons and your daughters will prophesy.
What did the 120 disciples do at Pentecost? There's no indication that they foretold new events, but Acts chapter 2 verse 11 says,
we hear them speaking about the magnificent things of God. This was called prophesying.
Today too, whether brothers or sisters or children, we share in a prophetic work, speaking about the magnificent things of God.
We speak about what he has done, what he is doing now, and what he will do in the near future.
What a privilege. Having seen many prophecies fulfilled, we have the prophetic work made more sure.
And we are telling people about the prophetic work in order to fortify their faith too.
Yes, we do it to help them get to the road to everlasting life and to develop an intimate relationship with our great God, Jehovah.